initial draft of core contract standards (#2)
makerdao/pe-checklists: core/standards.md

Core contracts should follow established coding patterns including repo and contract structures, variable naming patterns (yes Daiwanese is a standard for our team) and auth patterns.

Whenever possible, utilize an existing solution instead of building a new contract. MakerDAO is a very complex project and each new contract or derivation increases the cognitive and maintenance overhead of the entire protocol. By limiting the number of moving parts we reduce the risk of unexpected behavior.

This repo attempts to document our standards, other sources include (non-exhaustive list):

- https://github.com/makerdao/mips-best-practices

## Coding standards we expect to see in core contracts

### Permissions

Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy memory slot `0x0`

### Contract ordering

Following and expanding on [Solidity Order of layout recommendations](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/stable/style-guide.html#order-of-layout) our contracts are generally laid out in this way:

> 1. Wards variables, events and functions

Reviewer: Sounds good with the storage slot note. The only missing thing is the constants and immutables.

> 1. Wards variables, events and functions

Author: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/ac874cb51737f68746c4da1cc49b5f9dda7f5839

# Core Smart Contracts

## Definition of Core

A core contract is one that:

1. Any contract that is part of the [dss repo](https://github.com/makerdao/dss)
2. will have ward status on or other privileged access to any other core contract (i.e. `Vat.rely(<new contract address>)`)
3. will rely on the Pause Proxy as a permissioned actor. If the pause proxy has to directly interact with this contract then there is additional security and process work that needs to be done.

> 4. will be included in the chainlog as a canonical “Maker Contract”. Even if the contract does not have elevated permissions in the system, a failure of a contract in the chainlog could result in cost (bug bounties) or reputation damage for the protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. will be included in the chainlog as a canonical “Maker Contract” (denoted by the prefix `MCD` in the chainlog key). Even if the contract does not have elevated permissions in the system, a failure of a contract in the chainlog could result in cost (bug bounties) or reputation damage for the protocol.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure it is always the case. We haven't been very consistent with the `MCD` tagged with important contracts such as moms, and including D3M.

Reviewer 2: I thought it was referring to core contracts present in the dss repo

Reviewer: Hmmm no, this point is not talking about `dss` contracts specifically.

Author: yeah in this case it is referring to "core" in the sense of a contract considered part of maker core protocol not just dss contracts. so like gonza said could be moms, d3ms, escrows, etc

5. If a contract is put forward to a business partner of the DAO, by DAO members, close consideration should be given to whether it would be perceived as core Maker brand by those partners.

## Protocol Engineering Review Process for Core Contracts

All Core contracts need to go through a risk adjusted review process.  Risk should be evaluated at the beginning of the project and continue to be re-evaluated through the engineering process.

> Our review process at a minimum requires two team member reviews and approvals.  However for higher risk contracts may also involve team Red Team reviews and audits by external auditors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our review process at a minimum requires two team member reviews and approvals.  However for higher risk contracts may also involve Red Team reviews and audits by external auditors.
```

Core contracts should follow established coding patterns including repo and contract structures, variable naming patterns (yes Daiwanese is a standard for our team) and auth patterns.

Whenever possible, utilize an existing solution instead of building a new contract. MakerDAO is a very complex project and each new contract or derivation increases the cognitive and maintenance overhead of the entire protocol. By limiting the number of moving parts we reduce the risk of unexpected behavior.

This repo attempts to document our standards, other sources include (non-exhaustive list):

- https://github.com/makerdao/mips-best-practices

## Coding standards we expect to see in core contracts

### Permissions

Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy memory slot `0x0`

> ### Contract ordering

Reviewer 2: maybe a specific checklists for core contracts layout could be considered in addition to standards, to define a formal specification (e.g. spdx license, pragma patterns, interfaces patterns, structure, modularity, slot patterns, ....)

Reviewer 2: something that can be proposed and explored in a separate PR eventually

Following and expanding on [Solidity Order of layout recommendations](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/stable/style-guide.html#order-of-layout) our contracts are generally laid out in this way:

1. State variables (including wards and math)

    a. **note:** wards should be memory slot `0x0`
2. Events
3. Modifiers
4. Internal Math variables and functions

> 5. Other Internal functions

Reviewer 2: internal functions usually are grouped with the relative external ones

Author: hmm, so you think it should be:
4. Internal Math variables and functions
5. Other functions (internal ones grouped before their related external, e.g. `_exec` before `exec`)

That is the way d3m is laid out, but it is also true that no other internal functions happen after the external `exec`.  Do you  know of a case where we do:

```solidity
function _func1 internal {}
function func1 external {}
function _func2 internal {}
function func2 external {}
```

I kind of feel like it should ways be:

```solidity
function _func1 internal {}
function _func2 internal {}
function func1 external {}
function func2 external {}
```

Author: solidity style guide says:

> Functions should be grouped according to their visibility and ordered:
> constructor
> receive function (if exists)
> fallback function (if exists)
> external
> public
> internal
> private

maybe we should follow that after math and auth if we don't already have an established pattern in our code?

Reviewer 2: I think maker contract layout patterns differ from the canonical solidity style layout, I suggested following those in the past for consistency with the solidity standards but I think there was no consensus around those.

6. Wards functions

> 7. External functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Fileable functions
8. External functions
```

Reviewer: Fileable functions are part of wards functions.

Reviewer 2: this should be specified then I guess

Reviewer: I guess "wards functions" is a synonym of "authed functions". Both are fine by me so whatever you guys prefer.

Reviewer 2: If the goal of the "Standards" section is to have clear guidelines for core contract development, this should be expressed clearly in it's meaning to avoid confusion or ambiguity.

Reviewer 2: Fileables is part of the contract layout structure, with it's own pattern and I think that's worth documenting, besides the property of being authed.

Reviewer: I think is clearly described as it is. If you think the opposite is fine to change to `authed functions`.
It is also fine if you want to split the point in three (`rely/deny`, `file` and other `authed functions`). I don't think is necessary that much verbosity but not opposed either if it is the preferred way for the rest.

Author: So, this is a good point, I was referring specifically to the ward related functions **not** any function with `auth`.  I don't think we have typically grouped `auth` functions at the top have we?  I'll take gonza's suggestion on outlining the three types since it looks like the current wording left room for interpretation.

Author: how does this sound to you all: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/9f4de9dbf421aba827e5ea575ce6b13de0d95397

Reviewer 2: I would use the `Fileable` terminology here, as it's a unique pattern.
Should we also include `authed functions` after the Fileable functions as suggested by @gbalabasquer ?

Author: I don't believe we have been putting `authed functions` at the top of `external` functions.  is that a standard somewhere? D3M has the external functions ordered differently

Reviewer 2: I would follow `dss-vest` contract layout for reference on that, after fileables there are internal math and then contract-specific authed functions

Author: hmmm, i'm not sure dss-vest is the standard right now. it looks like its layout is:

  1. Variables
  2. Events
  3. _Public Getter Functions_
  4. Constructor 
  5. Modifiers
  6. Wards functions
  7. Fileable
  8. Internal Math functions
  9. One Auth function
  10. External Function (`vest(uint256)` and `vest(uint256, uint256)`
  11. Internal function (`_vest`)
  12. External Function (`accrued`)
  13. Internal function (`accrued` _<-- missing underscore_)
  14. etc

So if we want to declare that as the new standard i can put that here, but our more recent contracts (d3m, dss-teleport) don't follow parts of that

Reviewer 2: I'm not saying `dss-vest` should be used as a standard but just extrapolating common patterns from dss-contracts

Reviewer 2: the missing underscore I think relates to an overloaded function

Author: ok, sorry i misunderstood:

> I would follow dss-vest contract layout for reference on that, 

so are you happy with this as the rough standard (also keep in mind this doc specifies "general guidelines" that we can deviate from when justified):

1. State variables (including wards and math)
    a. constants then immutables then storage variables
    b. wards should be storage slot `0x0`
2. Events
3. Constructor
4. Modifiers
5. Internal Math variables and functions
6. Wards functions (i.e. `rely`/`deny`)
7. Fileable functions
8. Other Internal functions
9. Other External functions

Reviewer 2: looks good!
I would inlcude, following `dss-vest` Getters after Events

Author: > looks good! I would inlcude, following `dss-vest`, Getters after Events

for d3m we found that those getters were getting in the way and put them at the bottom, are you okay with that?

Reviewer 2: I'm not strongly opposed but for a formalisation of that I would check with the team and maybe considering putting them after Events in a compact format.

Reviewer 2: we also might want to add NatSpec as part of the best practises

### Spacing

We align variables with extra whitespace. You will get PR comments if you are off by even one space.

### Naming

We prefer to try to have **Daiwanese** naming patterns (3 or 4 letter variables and functions).

If we are avoiding variable shadowing, we add a `_` to the end of the variable names.

If we are dealing with internal variables or functions we add the `_` to the front of the name.

> If we need to interact with external contracts, we prefer to have a minimal interface using the naming convention of `<ContractName>Like`. (These should be declared at the top of the contract file.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we need to interact with external contracts, we prefer to have a minimal static interface using the naming convention of `<ContractName>Like`. (These should be declared at the top of the contract file.)
```

Author: What is a non-static interface? Not sure I understand what you're clarifying

Reviewer 2: by static I mean, manually defined, the opposite would be imported during compilation

## Protocol Engineering Review Process for Core Contracts

All Core contracts need to go through a risk adjusted review process.  Risk should be evaluated at the beginning of the project and continue to be re-evaluated through the engineering process.

Our review process at a minimum requires two team member reviews and approvals.  However for higher risk contracts may also involve Red Team reviews and audits by external auditors.

Core contracts should follow established coding patterns including repo and contract structures, variable naming patterns (yes Daiwanese is a standard for our team) and auth patterns.

Whenever possible, utilize an existing solution instead of building a new contract. MakerDAO is a very complex project and each new contract or derivation increases the cognitive and maintenance overhead of the entire protocol. By limiting the number of moving parts we reduce the risk of unexpected behavior.

This repo attempts to document our standards, other sources include (non-exhaustive list):

- [MIPS best practices](https://github.com/makerdao/mips-best-practices)

## Coding standards we expect to see in core contracts

### Permissions

> Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy memory slot `0x0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy storage slot `0x0`
```

### Contract ordering

Following and expanding on [Solidity Order of layout recommendations](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/stable/style-guide.html#order-of-layout) our contracts are generally laid out in this way:

1. State variables (including wards and math)

>     a. constants then immutables then memory variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. constants then immutables then storage variables
```

>     b. wards should be memory slot `0x0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    b. wards should be storage slot `0x0`
```

2. Events
3. Modifiers
4. Internal Math variables and functions
5. Wards functions (i.e. `rely`/`deny`)
6. Fileable functions
7. Other Internal functions
8. Other External functions

### Spacing

We align variables with extra whitespace. You will get PR comments if you are off by even one space.

### Naming

We prefer to try to have **Daiwanese** naming patterns (3 or 4 letter variables and functions).

If we are avoiding variable shadowing, we add a `_` to the end of the variable names.

If we are dealing with internal variables or functions we add the `_` to the front of the name.

If we need to interact with external contracts, we prefer to have a minimal static interface using the naming convention of `<ContractName>Like`. (These should be declared at the top of the contract file.)

### Dependencies

We try to keep our repos relatively dependency free.  We do not rely on external contract libraries (i.e. Open Zeppelin) and try on only import submodules that are absolutely necessary as this keeps the cascading updates to a minimum.

> ### Antipatterns

Reviewer 2: maybe we could add a section on dev documentation (e.g. Readme) and NatSpec

Author: good call, added here: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/8c1d3c39ac46443079b175c317084ecb3c6d8fa9

though it might be more accurate for us to have this section say:

```
### Documentation

[TODO]
``` 
😅

# Core Smart Contracts

> ## Definition of Core

Author: yes it is any one of the bullets. i'll clarify

> ## Definition of Core

Author: better: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/efd180314309f11a1d633ff52fa6a4b22a8ce746 ?

> ## Definition of Core

Reviewer 3: Much better!

A core contract is one that:

1. Any contract that is part of the [dss repo](https://github.com/makerdao/dss)
2. Will have ward status on or other privileged access to any other core contract (i.e. `Vat.rely(<new contract address>)`)

> 3. Will rely on the Pause Proxy as a permissioned actor. If the pause proxy has to directly interact with this contract then there is additional security and process work that needs to be done.

Author: Basically, I'm trying to say if we will ever have to call this contract from the pause proxy, then it qualifies.  Does this clarify the language:

```suggestion
3. Will rely on the Pause Proxy as a permissioned actor. If the pause proxy will at any point make an external call to this contract then there is additional security and process work that needs to be done.
```

> 3. Will rely on the Pause Proxy as a permissioned actor. If the pause proxy has to directly interact with this contract then there is additional security and process work that needs to be done.

Reviewer 3: Yes, that is much better!

4. will be included in the chainlog as a canonical “Maker Contract”. Even if the contract does not have elevated permissions in the system, a failure of a contract in the chainlog could result in cost (bug bounties) or reputation damage for the protocol.

> 5. If a contract is put forward to a business partner of the DAO, by DAO members, close consideration should be given to whether it would be perceived as core Maker brand by those partners.

Author: @naszam I removed the addition of `dss` to "new contract address" as I feel it is confusing... some of these new contracts may not be in the dss repo

## Protocol Engineering Review Process for Core Contracts

All Core contracts need to go through a risk adjusted review process.  Risk should be evaluated at the beginning of the project and continue to be re-evaluated through the engineering process.

Our review process at a minimum requires two team member reviews and approvals.  However for higher risk contracts may also involve Red Team reviews and audits by external auditors.

> Core contracts should follow established coding patterns including repo and contract structures, variable naming patterns (yes Daiwanese is a standard for our team) and auth patterns.

Reviewer 3: It goes without saying (at least it should) that we value security over gas optimisations and value costly simplicity over cheap complexity. As such, low level calls should be used minimally and gas optimisation tricks should be used where appropriate but not any more.

Just my 2c here

Author: Added some comments here: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/be221016ee1746864099252b6760156ff4e16211

Whenever possible, utilize an existing solution instead of building a new contract. MakerDAO is a very complex project and each new contract or derivation increases the cognitive and maintenance overhead of the entire protocol. By limiting the number of moving parts we reduce the risk of unexpected behavior.

This repo attempts to document our standards, other sources include (non-exhaustive list):

- [MIPS best practices](https://github.com/makerdao/mips-best-practices)

## Coding standards we expect to see in core contracts

### Permissions

Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy storage slot `0x0`

### Contract ordering

Following and expanding on [Solidity Order of layout recommendations](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/stable/style-guide.html#order-of-layout) our contracts are generally laid out in this way:

> 1. State variables (including wards and math)

Reviewer 3: On this topic the solidity version also goes up the top so if we are being particular with that we should mention it here?

> 1. State variables (including wards and math)

Author: I feel this mostly describes the actual contract, not the file.  If we expand to the contract file, then probably need to include:

- line break at end
- pragma version
- license
- one contract per file
etc

> 1. State variables (including wards and math)

Reviewer 3: I think it would be good to have something on this.

If we take a contract where all the above conditions were satisfied (a line at the end, the pragma version was incorrect and it was multiple contracts per file / multi file contract) we would probably not be too happy about it! 

I agree that this probably wasn't the best section of the document to raise it, but if it's something we would push back on if it didn't match our standards, IMO we should make our standards known and accessible.

    a. constants then immutables then storage variables

    b. wards should be storage slot `0x0`
2. Events
3. Getter functions (i.e. to make reading structs easier)

    a. these may be placed at the end of the file if they are extensive to improve readability
4. Constructor
5. Modifiers

> 6. Internal Math variables and functions

Author: I saw wad, ray and rad as the "Math variables" since those (and MILLIONS, BILLIONS, etc) are  the only ones we typically put in the math section.  Is there something else you think needs to be added?

> 6. Internal Math variables and functions

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should call them math constants or precision and math constants? The only other stuff that goes here (for spells) is rates stuff which again are constants

7. Wards functions (i.e. `rely`/`deny`)
8. Fileable functions
9. Other Internal functions
10. Other External functions

### Spacing

> We align variables with extra whitespace. You will get PR comments if you are off by even one space.

Author: added to the file section. Also, there is a setting you can add that will add this for you.  I think @naszam told me about it because he got tired of calling me out in PRs for forgetting the trailing whitespace.

### Naming

We prefer to try to have **Daiwanese** naming patterns (3 or 4 letter variables and functions).

If we are avoiding variable shadowing, we add a `_` to the end of the variable names.

If we are dealing with internal variables or functions we add the `_` to the front of the name.

If we need to interact with external contracts, we prefer to have a minimal static interface using the naming convention of `<ContractName>Like`. (These should be declared at the top of the contract file.)

### Dependencies

We try to keep our repos relatively dependency free.  We do not rely on external contract libraries (i.e. Open Zeppelin) and try on only import submodules that are absolutely necessary as this keeps the cascading updates to a minimum.

### Antipatterns

In order to limit contract complexity, we also tend to stay away from inheritance patterns.

We believe that upgradable proxies are an antipattern.  If you need upgradability, it should be handled with modular design and permission given to the Pause Proxy. There are rare exceptions to this such as where there is a user storage mapping and high chance of needing to upgrade (e.g. cropper or charter).

### Documentation

> Repositories should have a README file that outline the purpose, functionality and how to use the contract.  In addition to this external/public functions should have [NatSpec comments](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/style-guide.html#natspec).

Reviewer 3: ### Deployment

Contracts being deployed should follow existing patterns in terms of optimisation settings and solc versions, adapted where appropriate. Deployments with rare exception should not change their optimisation settings between release versions. 
(Here I am talking about spells being an exception)

Author: So I feel like this wording is a little non-specific, how do you feel about what i included here: https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/pull/2/commits/be221016ee1746864099252b6760156ff4e16211

Reviewer 3: Good, "In most cases constants and immutables can be declared internal" should specify that all constants and vars *must* have a visibility modifier set and it can't be default/blank

# Core Smart Contracts

## Definition of Core

A core contract is one that meets any one of the following:

1. Any contract that is part of the [dss repo](https://github.com/makerdao/dss)
2. Will have ward status on or other privileged access to any other core contract (i.e. `Vat.rely(<new contract address>)`)
3. Will rely on the Pause Proxy as a permissioned actor. If the pause proxy will at any point make an external call to this contract then there is additional security and process work that needs to be done.
4. Will be included in the chainlog as a canonical “Maker Contract”. Even if the contract does not have elevated permissions in the system, a failure of a contract in the chainlog could result in cost (bug bounties) or reputation damage for the protocol.

> 5. If a contract is put forward to a business partner of the DAO, by DAO members, close consideration should be given to whether it would be perceived as core Maker brand by those partners.

Reviewer 3: The last sentence is additional context which IMO shouldn't be in this definition area. Can it go below? The first sentence is OK with me

## Protocol Engineering Review Process for Core Contracts

All Core contracts need to go through a risk adjusted review process.  Risk should be evaluated at the beginning of the project and continue to be re-evaluated through the engineering process.

Our review process at a minimum requires two team member reviews and approvals.  However for higher risk contracts may also involve Red Team reviews and audits by external auditors.

> Core contracts should follow established coding patterns including repo and contract structures, variable naming patterns (yes [Daiwanese](https://docs.makerdao.com/other-documentation/system-glossary) is a standard for our team) and auth patterns. For most contracts, compiler version should be fixed at 0.8.n or 0.6.12 and optimizations should be off.  While licensing is considered on a case by case basis, it should always be declared and we tend to default to AGPLv3. We value security over gas optimizations and simplicity over complexity. As such, low level calls should be used minimally and gas optimization tricks should be used sparingly.

Reviewer 3: Additional comment here, maybe we should tell devs **not** to just hop 0.5.12 to 0.8.14 without a documented reason why? We would be documenting our stuff as we upgrade so might be a good idea

Author: I think this is a good point but doesn't feel like the right place to add it. It is more about maintenance and upgrading/changes.  I'll add something to the documentation for this i think

Reviewer 3: Ok cool

Whenever possible, utilize an existing solution instead of building a new contract. MakerDAO is a very complex project and each new contract or derivation increases the cognitive and maintenance overhead of the entire protocol. By limiting the number of moving parts we reduce the risk of unexpected behavior.

This repo attempts to document our standards, other sources include (non-exhaustive list):

- [MIPS best practices](https://github.com/makerdao/mips-best-practices)

## Coding standards we expect to see in core contracts

### Permissions

Permissioning in the contract should be handled by `wards` and the `wards` mapping should occupy storage slot `0x0`

### Contract File

> `.sol` files should adhere to the following standards:

Author: The problem is there are a bunch of areas we don't follow that guide, so maybe;

```suggestion
Maker has its own idiomatic style for smart contracts.  We have documented the key points below. For any points that are not documented below or do not have an established pattern in the existing code, we recommend following the Solidity [style guide](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.17/style-guide.html) is highly recommended.

As a bare minimum, `.sol` files should adhere to the following standards:
```

> `.sol` files should adhere to the following standards:

Reviewer 3: Sure that works.

- Line break at the end
- Include a license at the top
- Declare pragma version after the license
- In almost all cases there should only be one contract per file

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- In almost all cases there should be only one contract declaration per `.sol` file
- Compilation should not require the use of intermediate representation (`via-ir`)
```

I tried to reword my first version better, does that work for you?

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- All `.sol` files should contain at most one contract declaration
- Compilation should not require the use of intermediate representation (`via-ir`)
```

### Contract ordering

Following and expanding on [Solidity Order of layout recommendations](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/stable/style-guide.html#order-of-layout) our contracts are generally laid out in this way:

1. State variables (including wards and math)

>     a. Constants then immutables then storage variables. All constants and variables should have explicit visibility declared. In most cases, constants and immutables can be declared internal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    a. Declare constants first, then immutables and finally storage variables. All constants and variables should have visibility explicitly declared (`internal` in most cases).
```

Reviewer 3: Not sure if we should even mention constants here since they dont use state...

    b. Wards should be storage slot `0x0`
2. Events

> 3. Getter functions (i.e. to make reading structs easier)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Getter functions ( to make reading structs easier)
```

    a. these may be placed at the end of the file if they are extensive to improve readability
4. Constructor
5. Modifiers

> 6. Internal Math constants and functions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Internal math constants and functions
```

> 7. Wards functions (i.e. `rely`/`deny`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Auth control functions such as `rely` or `deny`
```

8. Fileable functions
9. Other Internal functions
10. Other External functions

### Spacing

> We align variables with extra whitespace. You will get PR comments if you are off by even one space.

Reviewer 3: I love how aggressive this is but I like this too:

```suggestion
Value declarations (variables and constants) are aligned using whitespace such that they all start at the same position. While this is a code style requirement, this is enforced in code review and so effort should be taken to align variables.
```

Or smth

### Naming

We prefer to try to have **Daiwanese** naming patterns (3 or 4 letter variables and functions) such as `guy`, `usr`, or `who` for address parameters and `wad` or `amt` for `uint` or `int` parameters (with care given to `RAY`, `RAD`, and `WAD` precision).

> If we are avoiding variable shadowing, we add a `_` to the end of the variable names.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Variables named to avoid shadowing are appended with an underscore (`_`).
```
Can add here "it is standard practise for the parameters to have an underscore (basically we dont want them mixing it up?)

> If we are dealing with internal variables or functions we add the `_` to the front of the name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Internal variable and function names are prepended with an underscore (`_`).
```

> If we need to interact with external contracts, we prefer to have a minimal static interface using the naming convention of `<ContractName>Like`. (These should be declared at the top of the contract file.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When interacting with external contracts is required, a minimal static interface before the contract declaration is used, with the naming convention `<ContractName>Like`.
```

It's not *at the top* it's near the top. Above contract{} right?

### Dependencies

> We try to keep our repos relatively dependency free.  We do not rely on external contract libraries (i.e. Open Zeppelin) and try on only import submodules that are absolutely necessary as this keeps the cascading updates to a minimum.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dependencies should be avoided unless absolutely necessary to minimize cascading updates.  Core contracts must not rely on external contract libraries (i.e. OpenZeppelin or Solmate) only import submodules that are absolutely necessary.
```
shoutout t11

### Antipatterns

> In order to limit contract complexity, we also tend to stay away from inheritance patterns.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inheritance patterns should be avoided to avoid unnecessary complexity.
```

> We believe that upgradable proxies are an antipattern.  If you need upgradability, it should be handled with modular design and permission given to the Pause Proxy. There are rare exceptions to this such as where there is a user storage mapping and high chance of needing to upgrade (e.g. cropper or charter).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upgradable proxies are considered an antipattern. 

Where upgradability is required, it should be handled via a `rely` on the Pause Proxy and modular design. 
*There are rare exceptions to this such as where there is a user mapping in state and high chance of needing to upgrade (e.g. cropper or charter).*
```

### Documentation

> Repositories should have a README file that outline the purpose, functionality and how to use the contract.  In addition to this external/public functions should have [NatSpec comments](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/style-guide.html#natspec).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Repositories should have a `README.md` file which outlines the contract's purpose, its functionality and relevant instructions.  Any `external` or `public` functions should have [NatSpec comments](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/style-guide.html#natspec).
```

### Deployment

> Contracts should be verified on Etherscan with a license and pragma clearly set. Optimizations generally should be turned off.  The verified code should match the main branch of the source repository on Github.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Contracts should be automatically verified on Etherscan with compiler version and license values populated. Optimizations should be turned off, with rare exception. Verified code should match the main branch of the source repository on GitHub.
```

Author: I'm not sure about the automatically verified piece. I think that is just spells.

Reviewer 3: If it isn't autoverify then we can run into the issue where etherscan doesn't populate the license version (as we have seen in recent onboardings).

Up to you on this, I'm open to either way

Author: ```suggestion
Contracts should be verified on Etherscan with compiler version and license values populated. Optimizations should be turned off, with rare exception. Verified code should match the main branch of the source repository on GitHub.
```
